LD48.md, before:

# LD ideas and roadmap

## Basic TDL
- [x] Make mvp
- [x] make flies
- [x] make tiles
- [x] make flies die
- [x] create attraction to mouse in flies
- [x] handle camera movement NOTE: camera margins have to include camera size paddings
- [x] create start of level with flies spawn
- [x] create exit to ending - win condition
- [x] implement lose conditions when flies count reaches zero
- [ ] add menu to restart
- [N] make flies survive if they eat poop ( and give you energy)

### secondary things
- [ ] create nice poop meter
- [ ] pus somewhere EGGS ABUND IN THE DEEP, BUT LACK IN THE TOP
- [ ] find a way to send message. maybe pause with "a fly says...", or maybe before choosing power
- [x] create eggs
- [x] make flies hatch if you pick up white thing (egg)
- [ ] create one menu callout prefab
- [ ] create one text callout
- [ ] add spacebar and button to pause
- [ ] when winning, count how many flies
- [ ] add attractor powerup once poop reaches certain level
- [ ] add flies powerup once poop reaches certain level
- [ ] add powerup choice
- [ ] add settings choice
- [ ] make tiles give random drop depending on depth (poop or more flies), but clarify mechanic?
- [ ] need to create indestructible tiles around borders
- [ ] add stages to fly (start small, then bigger, then gray big, then gray small, then die)
- [ ] maybe single level? But very hard upwards? You start in the center!!!
- [x] make tiles breakables
- [x] make procedurally generated tiles (test)
- [ ] show damage of flies with alpha (test!)
- [ ] make dialog system
- [ ] make introduction
- [ ] put more larvae below

### b feedback
- [ ] lead the flies upwards out of the maze (up to the surface)
- [ ] your pheromones attract flies when they are close
- [ ] fix win message when lost
- [ ] fix eggs spawning slowing down
- [ ] explain eggs
- [ ] explain energy

### optional
- [ ] put more enemies above
- [ ] make eggs and poop talk
- [ ] first and second time hint,second time
- [ ] make intro
- [ ] make music
- [ ] make boss
- [ ] add tracks to music based on cam height
- [x] put colored Rect as bg and change it based on cam height
- [ ] mega zoom out at the end
- [ ] put areas where fly die
- [ ] roll dice from number of flies
- [ ] roll dice for starting poop
- [ ] improve egg

### very optional
- speech intro
- leaderboard
- find general score
- change zoom based on number of fles more or less
- review sky palette

### SFX needed
- [ ] attraction power (cool chord that goes with the music perhaps? maybe a dyad that works on all the harmony)
- [ ] opening gong
- [ ] blip for confirm music
- [ ] eggPop
- [ ] flyDie
- [ ] flysticsk
- [ ] fly buzz
- [ ] show_msg (upwards sfx)


### music needed
- [ ] x files music
- [ ] music with 10 different levels of track that add on each others (10 music tracks)
- [ ] last two tracks can be 2 solos questions and answer


## Flies messages
Follow the light!
Lead us up!
I'm getting old!
This is some good manure!
It smells great in here!
I love to fly.
I guess I'm going that way.
I'm lost.
I dig the fumes.
It's like an aromatic sauna in here.
I love my neighborhood.
It's a poop party!
I love random directions.
Time FLIES by.
I'm pretty fly for a ...
Menure is looking good today.
Breathe in!
This is better than a toilet.
Let's hope nobody flushes...
We are suposed to dig UPWARDS.
Juicy goodness all around us.
I prefer the 'bull' kind. This is mixed.
What a giant pile of goodness!!
I definitely feel in my element.
It's nice, but we need to exit upwards.
Once we get out, I'm going to become an astronaut!
Once we leave, I will find a new pile of crap!
Sometimes you have to go down to go up.
Deeper and deeper!
Brown is my favorite color.

## Brainstorming ideas
### Lord of the flies
Go deeper into the underground, procedural generation which creates more and more poop to buy power ups
Fly:
 show age as alpha
Sample Enemies:
- [ ] red sqares (eat flies)
- [ ] orange squares (slow down flies)
- [ ] yellow squares (make flies ignore influence)
Simple powerups:
- [ ] increase area of influence
- [ ] buy more flies (health)
- [ ] flies live longer
- [ ] buy more sucking power/digesting fluids
Use only squares at first!! Make it PIXELATED
Just change color procedurally
When you get to the end, you become the Lord Of The Flies

A single fly should be able to save the day
With pickup!! breaking rock gives you poop or flies eggs or even directy flies!!!

show p-energy (poop)
when picking up something, a pop up popsup saying a stupid joke such as
"p-energy: p stands for poop!!!"

Make a monster blob with shitty crown, saying "this could be you! Sire!!!"

Beginning with two evil super pixelated white eyes over black background talking to you
Xfiles music
lower pitch voice
"Attention! This is not a Ludum Dare Game!
This is a real cypher message
We took control of your computer
we control a big group of...
flies
flies are actually nano-drones created by us Zeti Reticulans.
You humans call us aliens.

HA HA HA HA HA HA uuu mmm hheheh hihih.
We ask
YOU
to pilot our nano-drones, the "flies", through this computer simulation.
You need to lead us
DEEPER and DEEPER
(wink wink, shout-out to LD48)
and DEEPER
... 10 times DEEPER
to the CENTER of the EARTH.
We have been battling an unkown monster deep into the Earth.
The Groclocloclotrl!
(Be careful, it's pronounced gro-oh-ca-le-ca-lo-ca-rtk-wbnxzktr-ou-ou-ua-ua-ua-uuuuu-t-arrrrrr-l.)
Defeat him and we will crown you
Lord Of The Flies
AAH AH AH AH AH.

PLOT TWIST:
what if you are actually in a huge pile of shit and you are trying to get out?
The flies spirit, a huge larva can talk to you and tell you you are the spirit of escrement
You
Are
The Spirit
Of Escrement
Only you
the great hero of dirt
can guide the flies
out of the Mythical Mountain of Manure
in which they are trapped


Maybe destroy tiles with flies?

Would be nice to have kinda like a base that grows. Probably too complicated. But it could be a simple aggregate to symbolize you, the lord.
Could be always present in the canvas, along with a meter "flies horde"
Another bar could show your poop meter. When it reaches a certain treshold you can buy more flies or more power or digesting fluid.

Need to prioritize everything once done.

Music: Lord of The Flies with the vocoder

Spoiler alert: aliens take of mask at the end and they look furry and talk like Alvin Chipmunk

# 48 Hours Jam Plan and Basic Concepts of Game Prototyping

## Techincalities to remember
- [ ] check out filter when importing textures
- [x] set ratio 2d and keep, window to 640,320 and test to double that amount
- [x] set pixel snap


## Basics
- [ ] win condition
- [ ] lose condition (optional)

## Core Diagram
1 - Core Mechanic (Pacman move)
click to move camera nad your flies
2 - Secondary Mechanic (Pacman eat)
bring flies to dig and escape
3 - Progression
unlock 10 new levels
4 - Narrative ("Hero Myth", "Final Destination")
discover center of earth is hollow beautiful and has monster

## Prototyping rules
- prepare everything before, open software
- 2 hours max for idea
- meditate outdoors if desperate
- add only ONE type of each entity (powerups, tiles, enemies)
- finish at 7pm

## Creative Tricks
- try and tinker, don't try to think
- accept when thinking idea comes up

## General Timeline
### Before Start: Preparation Phase
- [x] prepare
### Day 1 evening
- [x] imagine a game (idea) - max 11pm
- [ ] imagine prototype: simple map with noise and flies bumping to break through
- [ ] test a mechanic if possible (optional)
- [ ] make early mvp
- [ ] scope
### Day 2 Morning/Afternoon
- [ ] make second minimum viable product
- [ ] look for opensource libraries!!
- [ ] test the mvp
- [ ] add win condition
- [ ] test
### Day 2 Evening
- [ ] add text bubbles if needed
- [ ] add text
- [ ] make graphics
### Day 3 Morning/Afternoon
- [ ] add graphics
- [ ] make music, sound fx
- [ ] add audio in code
- [ ] polish
- [ ] add presentation
### 7pm
- [ ] test exports
- [ ] submit

Commit message:

its slowly proceding. Im getting deeper and deeper in coding menure as i create game poop

LD48.md, after:

# LD ideas and roadmap

## Basic TDL
- [x] Make mvp
- [x] make flies
- [x] make tiles
- [x] make flies die
- [x] create attraction to mouse in flies
- [x] handle camera movement NOTE: camera margins have to include camera size paddings
- [x] create start of level with flies spawn
- [x] create exit to ending - win condition
- [x] implement lose conditions when flies count reaches zero
- [ ] add menu to restart
- [N] make flies survive if they eat poop ( and give you energy)

### secondary things
- [ ] create nice poop meter
- [ ] pus somewhere EGGS ABUND IN THE DEEP, BUT LACK IN THE TOP
- [ ] find a way to send message. maybe pause with "a fly says...", or maybe before choosing power
- [x] create eggs
- [x] make flies hatch if you pick up white thing (egg)
- [ ] create one menu callout prefab
- [ ] create one text callout
- [ ] add spacebar and button to pause
- [ ] when winning, count how many flies
- [ ] add attractor powerup once poop reaches certain level
- [ ] add flies powerup once poop reaches certain level
- [ ] add powerup choice
- [ ] add settings choice
- [ ] make tiles give random drop depending on depth (poop or more flies), but clarify mechanic?
- [ ] need to create indestructible tiles around borders
- [ ] add stages to fly (start small, then bigger, then gray big, then gray small, then die)
- [ ] maybe single level? But very hard upwards? You start in the center!!!
- [x] make tiles breakables
- [x] make procedurally generated tiles (test)
- [ ] show damage of flies with alpha (test!)
- [ ] make dialog system
- [ ] make introduction
- [ ] put more larvae below

### b feedback
- [ ] lead the flies upwards out of the maze (up to the surface)
- [ ] your pheromones attract flies when they are close
- [ ] fix win message when lost
- [ ] fix eggs spawning slowing down
- [ ] explain eggs
- [ ] explain energy

### optional
- [ ] put more enemies above
- [ ] make eggs and poop talk
- [ ] first and second time hint,second time
- [ ] make intro
- [ ] make music
- [ ] make boss
- [ ] add tracks to music based on cam height
- [x] put colored Rect as bg and change it based on cam height
- [ ] mega zoom out at the end
- [ ] put areas where fly die
- [ ] roll dice from number of flies
- [ ] roll dice for starting poop
- [ ] improve egg

### very optional
- speech intro
- leaderboard
- find general score
- change zoom based on number of fles more or less
- review sky palette

### SFX needed
- [ ] attraction power (cool chord that goes with the music perhaps? maybe a dyad that works on all the harmony)
- [ ] opening gong
- [ ] blip for confirm music
- [ ] eggPop
- [ ] flyDie
- [ ] flysticsk
- [ ] fly buzz
- [ ] show_msg (upwards sfx)
- [ ] big fart
- [ ] slow fart


### music needed
- [ ] x files music
- [ ] music with 10 different levels of track that add on each others (10 music tracks)
- [ ] last two tracks can be 2 solos questions and answer


## Flies messages
Follow the light!
Lead us up!
I'm getting old!
A gray fly is an old fly.
This is some good manure!
It smells great in here!
I love to fly.
I guess I'm going that way.
I'm lost.
I dig the fumes.
It's like an aromatic sauna in here.
I love my neighborhood.
It's a poop party!
I love random directions.
Time FLIES by.
I'm pretty fly for a ...
Menure is looking good today.
Breathe in!
This is better than a toilet.
Let's hope nobody flushes...
We are suposed to dig UPWARDS.
Juicy goodness all around us.
I prefer the 'bull' kind. This is mixed.
What a giant pile of goodness!!
I definitely feel in my element.
It's nice, but we need to exit upwards.
Once we get out, I'm going to become an astronaut!
Once we leave, I will find a new pile of crap!
Sometimes you have to go down to go up.
Deeper and deeper!
Brown is my favorite color.
Are you digging this? Get the joke? You are digging in poop...

## instructions (ffirst 4 messages?):
1 - the goal is to lead the flies up, out of the Epic Maze Of Poo
2 - click or drag or tap to attract flies with you feromones
3 - get white eggs to hatch more flies
4 - eating poo gives you power

## Brainstorming ideas
### Lord of the flies
Go deeper into the underground, procedural generation which creates more and more poop to buy power ups
Fly:
 show age as alpha
Sample Enemies:
- [ ] red sqares (eat flies)
- [ ] orange squares (slow down flies)
- [ ] yellow squares (make flies ignore influence)
Simple powerups:
- [ ] increase area of influence
- [ ] buy more flies (health)
- [ ] flies live longer
- [ ] buy more sucking power/digesting fluids
Use only squares at first!! Make it PIXELATED
Just change color procedurally
When you get to the end, you become the Lord Of The Flies

A single fly should be able to save the day
With pickup!! breaking rock gives you poop or flies eggs or even directy flies!!!

show p-energy (poop)
when picking up something, a pop up popsup saying a stupid joke such as
"p-energy: p stands for poop!!!"

Make a monster blob with shitty crown, saying "this could be you! Sire!!!"

Beginning with two evil super pixelated white eyes over black background talking to you
Xfiles music
lower pitch voice
"Attention! This is not a Ludum Dare Game!
This is a real cypher message
We took control of your computer
we control a big group of...
flies
flies are actually nano-drones created by us Zeti Reticulans.
You humans call us aliens.

HA HA HA HA HA HA uuu mmm hheheh hihih.
We ask
YOU
to pilot our nano-drones, the "flies", through this computer simulation.
You need to lead us
DEEPER and DEEPER
(wink wink, shout-out to LD48)
and DEEPER
... 10 times DEEPER
to the CENTER of the EARTH.
We have been battling an unkown monster deep into the Earth.
The Groclocloclotrl!
(Be careful, it's pronounced gro-oh-ca-le-ca-lo-ca-rtk-wbnxzktr-ou-ou-ua-ua-ua-uuuuu-t-arrrrrr-l.)
Defeat him and we will crown you
Lord Of The Flies
AAH AH AH AH AH.

PLOT TWIST:
what if you are actually in a huge pile of shit and you are trying to get out?
The flies spirit, a huge larva can talk to you and tell you you are the spirit of escrement
You
Are
The Spirit
Of Escrement
Only you
the great hero of dirt
can guide the flies
out of the Mythical Mountain of Manure
in which they are trapped


Maybe destroy tiles with flies?

Would be nice to have kinda like a base that grows. Probably too complicated. But it could be a simple aggregate to symbolize you, the lord.
Could be always present in the canvas, along with a meter "flies horde"
Another bar could show your poop meter. When it reaches a certain treshold you can buy more flies or more power or digesting fluid.

Need to prioritize everything once done.

Music: Lord of The Flies with the vocoder

Spoiler alert: aliens take of mask at the end and they look furry and talk like Alvin Chipmunk

# 48 Hours Jam Plan and Basic Concepts of Game Prototyping

## Techincalities to remember
- [ ] check out filter when importing textures
- [x] set ratio 2d and keep, window to 640,320 and test to double that amount
- [x] set pixel snap


## Basics
- [ ] win condition
- [ ] lose condition (optional)

## Core Diagram
1 - Core Mechanic (Pacman move)
click to move camera nad your flies
2 - Secondary Mechanic (Pacman eat)
bring flies to dig and escape
3 - Progression
unlock 10 new levels
4 - Narrative ("Hero Myth", "Final Destination")
discover center of earth is hollow beautiful and has monster

## Prototyping rules
- prepare everything before, open software
- 2 hours max for idea
- meditate outdoors if desperate
- add only ONE type of each entity (powerups, tiles, enemies)
- finish at 7pm

## Creative Tricks
- try and tinker, don't try to think
- accept when thinking idea comes up

## General Timeline
### Before Start: Preparation Phase
- [x] prepare
### Day 1 evening
- [x] imagine a game (idea) - max 11pm
- [ ] imagine prototype: simple map with noise and flies bumping to break through
- [ ] test a mechanic if possible (optional)
- [ ] make early mvp
- [ ] scope
### Day 2 Morning/Afternoon
- [ ] make second minimum viable product
- [ ] look for opensource libraries!!
- [ ] test the mvp
- [ ] add win condition
- [ ] test
### Day 2 Evening
- [ ] add text bubbles if needed
- [ ] add text
- [ ] make graphics
### Day 3 Morning/Afternoon
- [ ] add graphics
- [ ] make music, sound fx
- [ ] add audio in code
- [ ] polish
- [ ] add presentation
### 7pm
- [ ] test exports
- [ ] submit
